.TH AD2OPENLDAP: "8" "" "January 2013" "January 2013"

.SH "NAME"
ad2openldap \- program for populating an OpenLDAP server with Active Directory objects
.LP
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.TP
ad2openldap [\fB--help\fR]
.TP
ad2openldap [\fB--version\fR]
.TP
ad2openldap \fBdeltasync\fR [\fB--config-file CONFIG_FILE\fR]
               [\fB--notify-address NOTIFY_ADDRESS\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR]
               [\fB--debug\fR]
.TP
ad2openldap \fBfullsync\fR [\fB--config-file CONFIG_FILE\fR]
              [\fB--notify-address NOTIFY_ADDRESS\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR]
              [\fB--debug\fR]
.TP
ad2openldap \fBhealthcheck\fR [\fB--config-file CONFIG_FILE\fR]
                 [\fB--notify-address NOTIFY_ADDRESS\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR]
                 [\fB--debug\fR] [\fB--common-name COMMON_NAME\fR]
.TP
ad2openldap \fBrtcclean\fR [\fB--config-file CONFIG_FILE\fR]
              [\fB--notify-address NOTIFY_ADDRESS\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR]
              [\fB--debug\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This program is used for replicating user/group information from a Microsoft
Active Directory server into an OpenLDAP server. ad2openldap exists to: 1) 
Compensate for Active Directory performance issues and 2) isolate AD servers 
from potential overload from bad cluster applications.

.SH "COMMAND-LINE ACTIONS"
.PP
When calling ad2openldap from the command-line, the first non-hyphen argument 
is interpreted as an action to perform.
.PP
The following actions may be performed:
.PP
\fBsetup\fR
.RS 4
Display setup instructions.
.RE
.PP
\fBfullsync\fR
.RS 4
Perform a one-way, full sync from Active Directory to the ad2openldap DIT. 
Must be run as root.  \fBUse with caution, this command is destructive and 
currently will permanently delete all DITs on this system\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fBdeltsync\fR
.RS 4
Perform a one-way sync from Active Directory to the ad2openldap DIT, 
only working with the delta.  Typically run as the openldap user and requires 
ad_export* files in tmp_dir be owned by this user.
.RE
.PP
\fBhealthcheck\fR
.RS 4
Check health of OpenLDAP instance by performing a search for a common name 
that is expected to be present in the DIT.
.RE
.PP
\fBrtcclean\fR
.RS 4
Install a clean copy of cn=config, which adheres to rfc2307bis. 
\fBThis is a destructive command which should be used with caution\fR. 
All files under ldap_rtc_parent_dir (ad2openldap.conf setting) 
will be permanently lost!
.RE
.PP

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
Options that may be used to modify behavior of actions are listed below.  Note 
that certain options do not apply to all actions.
.PP
\fB-a, --notify-address <notify_address>\fR
.RS 4
Applies to all actions. E-mail address to send notifications to, overrides
settings in ad2openldap.conf, use multiple times to send to more than 
one recipient.
.RE
.PP
\fB-C, --config-file <config_file>\fR
.RS 4
Applies to all actions.  Configuration file to use, defaults to /etc/ad2openldap/ad2openldap.conf.
.RE
.PP
\fB-d, --debug\fR
.RS 4
Applies to all actions.  Turn debugging output on. 
.RE
.PP
\fB-h, --help\fR
.RS 4
Show help message and exit.
.RE
.PP
\fB-N, --common-name <common_name>\fR
.RS 4
Applies to \fBhealthcheck\fR action.  Specify a CN to search for. 
A single matching entry being returned is considered a success.
.RE
.PP
\fB-V, --version\fR
.RS 4
Print the version number and exit.
.RE
.PP
\fB-v, --verbose\fR
.RS 4
Turn verbose output on. If redirecting output to an application log file, 
this option is important. A future release may provide the option of specifying 
a log file, but for the initial release, output goes to STDOUT and STDERR.
.RE
.PP
\fB-y, --dont-blame-ad2openldap\fR
.RS 4
Applies to \fBrtcclean\fR and \fBfullsync\fR actions.  User confirms they understand 
the command is destructive. 
.RE
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Drop and recreate cn=config, adhering to rfc2307bis:
.PP
.RS 2
ad2openldap rtcclean --dont-blame-ad2openldap -v
.RE
.PP
Perform a full sync (must be run as root):
.PP
.RS 2
ad2openldap fullsync --dont-blame-ad2openldap -v
.RE
.PP
Perform a delta sync (run as openldap user that owns ad2openldap files in tmp_dir):
.PP
.RS 2
ad2openldap deltasync --dont-blame-ad2openldap -v
.RE
.PP
Perform a healthcheck, looking for a common name (run as openldap user):
.PP
.RS 2
ad2openldap healthcheck --common-name tjohnson
.RE
.SH "NOTES"
Before getting started, it is necessary to configure settings in ad2openldap.conf 
which resides in /etc/ad2openldap by default.  The configuration file is 
self-documented.  \fBad2openldap setup\fR displays helpful information for 
getting up and running.
.PP
Troubleshooting - using the --verbose flag is important for troubleshooting.  
Analyzing the current dump, last dump and delta is often important.  These 
files are specified in ad2openldap.conf.
.PP
Possible failure modes - 1) LDAP server failure - needs restart, possibly 
followed by forced full update if corrupt or incomplete, 2) Firewall 
block still improperly active - look at update script for removal syntax 
(this failure is very unlikely given the current process), 3) Bad or 
conflicting AD entities - a forced full update should remedy this.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP

\fBpython\fR(1),
\fBiptables\fR(8),
\fBslapd\fR(8),
\fBldapsearch\fR(1),
\fBldapmodify\fR(1),
\fBslapadd\fR(8)

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
\fBJeff Katcher\fR 
.RS 4
Author
.RE
\fBBrian Hodges <bhodges@fhcrc.org>\fR
.RS 4
Maintainer
.RE
\fBDirk Petersen\fR 
.RS 4
Contributor
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.br
.PP
Copyright 2011\-2013 Jeff Katcher\&.
.PP

